If you've ever felt frustrated about not
growing on Instagram, then this video is
for you. You are not too late. The
program is not too saturated and AI is
not going to ruin your chances because I
got you. For those of you who don't know
me, I'm Katie. I'm known as Gentle Coder
on here in Instagram and I'm a full-time
artist and content creator. I've grown
my art account from 0 to 10K without my
face and from 10K to 50K with my face.
So, by clicking on this video, you're
already on your way to growing your
account because by the end of this
video, I'm going to leave you so much
more confident and knowing exactly what
to do to grow your account from here.
Okay? And I'm going to start off by
saying that growing an account doesn't
have much to do with your art skill
level. So, if you want to improve your
art, you're going to have to do it
independently to growing your account.
For this video, I'm going to be talking
about growing your account, like kind of
strategically and methodically. And I
make other videos about being an artist,
and that is very a bit different to
growing your account. I'm going to stay
focused here, but I'm going to give you
a little rundown of what I think about
the two. Having a big following on
social media does not reflect your skill
as an artist. It reflects your ability
to use this app to your advantage to
reach people. So firstly, we need to
stop using your follower count as a
measure of your art skill. We need to
see growing social media as its own
game. Some might think that getting a
big following on social media might be a
lot of gambling and luck, and it is a
lot of that, but there's many things
that you can leverage. That being said,
if you treat social media as its own
game, the game has its own rules and
there's skills that you can develop that
you can improve in this game. And it's
very different to improving in art.
Yeah. And one of the factors here is the
algorithm. Okay. So, as a definition for
social media, the algorithm is a set of
rules and calculations that determine
what content is shown to users and in
what order. So if you spend a lot of
time watching like Satosuku content,
you're going to get more Satosuku
content because the app wants to keep
you on the app for longer. So they're
going to show you more Satosuku content
because they think you like Satosu
content. So when you're on social media
sharing your app, the app values watch
time and shares rather than art skill.
It doesn't assess your art skill. Like
you'd think better art will get more
followers and more likes on Instagram,
but that's not always the case. There
could be a correlation because if you
have a more visually captivating
composition, people might look at your
piece for longer. Yeah. But I found that
that's not always the case, which might
be encouraging or disenouraging, but
let's take it the encouraging way. The
great thing is people love watching
other people improve, and anyone can
improve. So, anyone can gather an
audience on Instagram. Before we get
into gathering an audience, if that's
what you decide on doing, you're likely
going to achieve it. So, first we want
to ask ourselves, why do we want to grow
on Instagram? If you're taking this as a
career path, something that I've grown
to keep in mind is that social media
isn't the only path to become an artist
as a career. It is the path that is most
accessible to the masses of people
because most people use social media
nowadays. And if you're an artist and
want to get the masses attention, you
also hop on to the thing that people use
every day. When you're searching how to
be an artist full-time, you're searching
on an engine where a lot of content
creator artists are. Artists that use
YouTube as a means of distributing
information are likely to be content
creators, most of them. So, you're going
to get a lot of content creator, YouTube
artists like myself, we're going to be
talking about YouTube as a part of the
source of income that you get. But, if
you're an artist that's not using
YouTube, they're not going to be making
YouTube videos talking about their
income streams. So, you got to really
dig into like where they might be in
research because I'm sure there are many
many ways to earn a living using art
without being on social media with like
being faceless. Like definitely a bunch
of ways out there, especially with how
much information that we can get by
using the internet. I'm sure you can
figure out a way. Go research. It's
possible. So, if you're still watching
here, you're probably keen on growing on
social media. So, from now, I'm going to
share with you how you can easily get
your first 10K, 50K, 100K followers, but
you're going to be growing it very
intentionally. You're going to know why
you want to grow a follower base because
it's going to work. Be careful what you
wish for.
Okay. Okay. Now that we've established
your want to grow your social media, now
it's to decide if you want to be a
faceless account or a facealking content
creator account and you can totally
accumulate your empire using both of
these accounts. If your concerns about
like privacy, security, then it's
totally fine not to show your face. If
your concerns are about not feeling
confident, remember that showing your
face and talking to the camera is like a
skill. Just like when you first started
drawing, there's a period where you need
to practice and then you'll get better.
So, everyone starts from a place where
they are not good at something. So,
don't worry if you're bad at anything.
So, don't worry if you're bad at
anything. Don't worry if you're bad at
drawing. Don't worry about if your
designs are bad at first because you're
going to improve. Yeah. Whether you go
faceless or not, it requires practice
and planning and it requires separating
growing and social media with art skill.
So, you need to set aside some time to
practice your art either way. And you
need to set aside time to strategize and
content plan if you want to grow a
social media. And the goal isn't to blow
up with one single post. It's to build a
momentum and to keep it sustainable for
yourself. In the end, you're an artist.
You're not a content producing machine.
Never treat your art as content.
Ideally, and most commonly, the growth
will come steadily and then
exponentially. But by the time it goes
exponential, you would have built the
habits and sustainable mindset to be
able to handle that. The problem with
going viral is you haven't developed the
habits and the mindsets to cope with a
big social media following. So, you
often burn out or feel very stressed. If
you're if you're not wanting to post
because you're thinking your art isn't
good enough to start an art account and
you think your art isn't good enough to
start an art account.
No, anyone can start an art account if
that's what you choose to do. You think
that this mindset will go away once you
become a better artist, but it's really
not a skill issue of your art. It's
really just a mindset. Even objectively
great artists can still think this way.
It's to do with courage and
self-confidence. See, how good you think
an art piece is is subjective. So, you
might think this art piece is really
bad, but someone else who is more of a
beginner than you at art will think that
piece is really good. I've talked about
this in another video with like your
skill curve, like how well you assist,
how well you know your artistic taste
and your artistic skill. The more art
you look at and the more art you consume
intentionally will increase your
artistic taste. So that is how well you
know what you like. Okay. So this
artistic taste improves faster than your
artistic skill. So as you improve,
you're going to know what you like more.
And this improves like kind of similar.
This is a little faster, but they both
improve. So as you get better, you can
still think your art is bad even though
objectively you got so much better than
you did before. But yeah, you can still
have that mindset where you're like, I'm
so bad. I'm not going to post yet. It's
giving toxic parent knowing that that
kind of mindset doesn't go away once you
get better. It's totally okay to post
anytime. And the earlier in your art
journey you post actually the more of
your process that gets recorded. If you
post on Instagram, I guess you get to
see your progress through scrolling as
well as sketchbooks, which is kind of
cool, I think. So my action plan for you
today to get your first 10K, 50K, 100K
is to start a series because people love
seeing progress. People would love to
see you improve. They love watching
others improve and and people are going
to follow you and cheer you on and see
you improve. Now, this will help with
both Instagram Bible growth and artistic
growth. Remember, it's really important
to nurture your artistic
growth while you're building an
Instagram. Make sure you keep some
healthy boundaries between the two. That
will be great for your mental health.
So, some example ideas are Huvember
where you draw in one hue a day for 30
days. I think it's a challenge. I'll
link it down below. There's also other
ones like 30 days of showing your
sketchbook. I'm actually running one
right now with this hashtag. You can
also do a fan art theme challenge where
you draw the same character for 30 days.
The main thing is for an x number of
days, you're doing this thing which has
a theme in it. It's like a TV series of
your art. So, some examples from my
journey on Instagram are um the first
series I did was not intentionally a
series, but I drew sautus animatics with
music that I liked. So, I picked a lot
of like Fuji Kaz songs and like just the
two of us. I did a bunch of those songs
and I think the first attraction of
people that came to find me was through
those reals and I drew in black and
white kind of manga style of Satosu and
it was like an AMV. But yeah, back back
in those days I was known as the Satsugu
animatic girl. Yeah, back then I was
faceless. So that's what got me to 10K
as an artist on Instagram throughout the
challenge in terms of being an artist.
I drew a lot of poses and I've leared to
draw very quickly and efficiently. So I
love drawing with minimalistic lines and
and I'm going to show you guys the
impact that it had on my art style. So,
this is my first real ever posted. And
this was I was pretty nervous back then.
I drew with very sketchy lines, but I
was so passionate about portraying this
scene with this song. My friend actually
played this song on the guitar and I
loved his cover so much and I wanted to
draw something out of it and I was
really happy with this. And honestly
looking back at it, it makes me so happy
looking at this animatic. I'm I really
like it. In terms of art skill, I
improved a lot over the many many
animatics that I've made. And here is my
most recent animatic that I made, which
is not recent at all. It is like 2 years
ago, one and a half years ago.
And the lion art style is much closer to
what I want to be drawing in my manga. I
love manga, but I was too scared to draw
manga back then. So, I drew these little
reels that I found really silly and fun.
And overall, that was a really fun thing
to do. The next challenge I did was the
Huvember 30-day challenge where you draw
with a different hue every day for 30
days in November. So I did that with
Satusugu. So by the end of that I had 30
Satosugu illustrations. Yes, I did all
of that faceless as well. That was a
really fun time and I found that my
illustration skills grew a lot from that
Huvember challenge. For anyone that's
watching this, I highly recommend the
Hovevember challenge. You don't have to
do it in November. Try your best. And if
you can do one every day, that would be
great. The key is to make them really
low pressure activities. Like don't put
so much pressure on yourself that you
can't finish it in one day. Like make it
super easy. But even if you can't finish
in one day, that's okay. Just take a
break whenever you feel burnt out and
learn to read your body when it's
sending you signals. So, the the next
series that I did that got my Instagram
account from 10K to 30K is my how to
make a comic book series. I made that
after I made my first self-published
comic book one year ago from today. So,
that pretty much marks the start of my
full-time content creation journey. I
literally started making reals literally
a year ago from today, which is July
2024. But before that, I talked a lot to
the camera already. Like I made lots of
YouTube videos already at that time.
I've been making YouTube videos since
2020, 2019. But those videos got very
little views. And I also filmed so much
vlogs that I never edited and I probably
never will edit in the future because
there's just so much footage. Currently,
I'm doing a 30-day sketchbook challenge
where I am trying to make messy
sketchbooks, okay? Because I often see
super pretty polished 30-day sketchbook
challenges and I just feel so bad about
my sketchbooks. So, I'm really trying to
draw my usual sketching and like posting
it as a real. Those ones are like no
talking and I'm used to showing my face
now. So, I sometimes show my face, but
it's not a big deal in those videos.
It's mainly to show my art, but it's
also to show that there's a person
behind the art to make it more
relatable, that kind of energy. This
one, yeah, very, very casual vibes. Now,
I have around 50k people following me on
Instagram, so thank you guys so so much.
I appreciate you guys so much and I'll
help you guys too. So those are the five
series that I've done in the past. So
now it's your turn. You make a series
and notice how you feel as you're making
the series. Some discomfort is good
because that means you're doing
something new. If you feel like this
isn't aligning with your vision, then
it's time to stop and change course.
Like try another series and another one
and see what sticks. cuz your target
audience is out there in the world, but
they're waiting for you to make content
so that they can see you. I call it
content cuz I was talking about videos
making faces, but like they're waiting
to see your art. Now, the reason I said
to do short fast challenges of like 30
days to 90 days is because of the
quantity study. You know that quantity
study? You know that photography study
where they had a photography uni course
and half of the students for their
finals, they had to take like 100 photos
or something as their assignment, final
assignment, and they had to submit 100
photos and the other five were graded on
quality. So, they had to submit five
like perfect photos. And it turned out
that the quantity group actually took
better photos because they had more
practice in doing their craft. So to get
better at social media, you just post
more and don't worry too much about the
state of the post. Just like get it out
there, get your reps in and
don't get too burnt out in the process.
Same with art. When you're drawing, draw
quick studies that capture the vibe of
the piece rather than doing like making
it perfect, getting the rendered form
perfectly. Because a lot of the big
learning points of art pieces is the
tonal composition, like the composition
of the piece and the tonal, like the
black, white, gray. Okay. Basically,
what I mean is you'll improve a lot by
doing a quick piece. And don't wait to
be perfect. just start. Okay. Now, what
do you make your series on? Are you
feeling pressured because you have to
make like a bunch of videos with the
same topic? How are you going to decide
what topic to make? I would suggest to
brainstorm like a page and write some
possible like themes that you want to
write about and then refine those. You
can also go on Instagram and see what
other artists are doing. And like you
can also find a bunch of your favorite
art pieces and see what they have in
common. So like say you have like these.
Oh my god, my print fell. Okay. Um, so
the say say these. See what do they have
in common? Like for me, I love the
lighting in all of them. So, I would
maybe do a Huvember
because
I want to work on some simple
simple lighting and color capturing like
the most important colors in a piece
very quickly. And the more you do that,
the better you get at those skills.
You'll also grow a social media
following because people will be looking
at you improving. And then they also
love consistency. I feel like the app
rewards consistency which is not great
for artists because we want to keep
growing. But with these series you can
grow and look consistent. Like nothing
more aesthetic than a Hvember artist.
It's also good to use posting as a
healthy pressure to keep you drawing.
Only if it's healthy though that could
spiral. So be careful. Yeah. And for
those of you who are not looking to show
your face, just remember that your art
is not content. When you're wanting to
grow on a platform like Instagram, they
treat the posts as content, but your art
is not content. But you got to post more
to stay relevant. So that's like a
slippery slope that you can get into. So
don't worry too much about that if
you're like not making content,
especially if you're doing this as a
hobby as an artist. Not worth. It feels
a bit degrading to your art if you do
that. Just focus on your art skill. As
for how often you need to post this, I'd
say for artists, once a week is
sufficient. But if you want to be a
content creator, I'd say two reals, a
YouTube video,
and an art piece a week
is my goal currently. I think that's
sustainable for me. That's what I
personally aim for as a full-time
content creator artist. Follow a growth
that supports your creativity like this
healthy pressure to post is great, but
growth that costs your creativity and
makes you anxious because people are
seeing it. It's time to like
rethink your relationship with social
media. Take like a really big step back.
Don't worry about the people there. I
really recommend turning off your
Instagram notifications or follower
notifications, comments, followers,
likes, all of that. Turn those off and
just nut and go like post and don't get
off the app, okay? Don't check your
notifications. I'm watching you.
But yes, growing on Instagram is not
hard when you have a plan. This was the
method that worked for me personally,
both faceless and with a camera in my
face. No matter which style of posting
you go, your art is bound to improve by
using this 30-day challenge method.
Okay? And don't worry, you're not behind
at all. Now is the perfect time to start
to grow an Instagram art account. If you
watched up to here, let me know what
kind of series you're thinking of
starting in the comments. and also leave
your Instagram handle so you guys can
find each other and follow each other's
series. I think that would be so
exciting. I'm cheering you on. See you
next week. Bye.
I've been away for a while.
No one can change time.
How could I?
I got to know where you hide.